human trafficking is defined in the Palermo protocol it
is a human rights issue this means that nations
and their governments have obligations under
international human rights law to take action
to prevent trafficking identify protect and
assist victims as well as hold perpetrators
to account understanding human trafficking
and other forms of modern slavery as a human
rights issue is critical because it helps us
look beyond a solely criminal justice focused
approach and place individuals at risk or who are
experiencing exploitation right at the centre of
the response with a clear focus on prevention and
protection there are a number of key provisions
within international human rights law that are
applicable one of the most prominent for the UK
is a prohibition of slavery servitude and forced
or compulsory labour which we can find in article
four of the European convention on human rights
and in domestic law via the Human Rights Act the
European Court of human rights in interpreting the
convention has confirmed in a number of key cases
that human trafficking falls within the scope of
article four and that to comply with its obligations
states must among other things take operational
measures to identify and protect those being
exploited for me a human rights based approach
is really critical because it places the rights
of individuals at the centre of the response
ensuring the equality and dignity of all people